


STATIC PODS

What are they?
They are pods created by the kubelet on its own, without the intervention from the kube API server or the rest of the kubernetes cluster components.

*Only pods can be created this way. (not replica sets or deployments)  Replica sets and deployments require other cluster plane components.


HOW TO CREATE A STATIC POD?

- You configure the kubelet to read the pod definition files from a directory on the server designated to store information about pods.
- Place the pod definition files in this directory.
- Not only does the kubelet create pods, it ensures that the pod stays alive if the app crashes.

NB If you remove a file from this directory, the pod is deleted.
   Kubelet (NOT Controller Manager) watches static Pods and restarts them if they fail

What is the designated folder to store the pod definition files?
It could be any directory on the host, and the location of directory is passed into the kubelet as an option while running the service.

One way to find this is to look at the *kubelet conf file* which  can be found at /var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml
* cat /var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml                         (displays the kubelet configuration file. Remember kubelets creates pods)

-There is a specification in the file that says "staticPodPath"
 eg staticPodPath: /etc/kubernetes/manifests           

-Once the static pods are created,you can view them by running the "Docker ps" command. 
(A kube control command is not used to because it works with the cluster & remember we dont have the rest of the cluster componenents here)


Kubelet can create pods from different inputs...
1. The first is through the pod definition files, from the static pods folder.
2. The second is through an ETCD API endpoint.And that is how the kube API server(how API server provides input to Kubelet)

Kubelets can create both kinds of pods at the same time


WHY USE STATIC PODS?
You can use static pods to deploy the control plane components itself as pods on a node.

A. How to deploy control plane components as pods (STATIC)
i. Start by installing kubelet on all the master nodes
ii. Create pod definition files that uses Docker images of the various control plane components
such as the API server controller etcd, etc
iii. Place the definition files in the designated manifest folder, and the kubelet takes care of deploying the control plane
components themselves as pods on the cluster

STATIC PODS VS DAEMON SETS
STATIC  PODS                                                          DAEMON SETS
I.Created by Kubelet                                          I.Created by Kube-API server(DaemonSet Controller)
II.Deploy Control Plane components as Static Pods              II.Deploy Monitoring Agents,Logging agents on nodes     

# One way to identify static pods is that, they have their node name appended to it.
*kubectl get pod -A          (display all pods in all namespaces)
-any pod that is listed with its node name by it is a STATIC POD



REGULAR POD SCHEDULING

1.API Server gets the request
2.Scheduler: which Node?
3.Kubelet: schedules Pod
4.Etcd: stores pod data

STATIC POD SCHEDULING
Kubelet: schedules Pod



